Crochet Mode will feature the ability to sign up, log in, favorite patterns, and post comments on patterns. In order to make this possible we have created a database featuring user, post, favorite, content, and category tables. The user table holds a user's information for the login system as well as comment posting and favorites. The user table will hold values for user ID, username, first name, last name, email, favorites (favorite ID from the favorites table), and created. When a user decides to sign up as a member they will need to provide their email, first name, last name, username, and a password. Once they have entered this information the created variable will add a date/timestamp to the users account. This will allow us to keep track of how long a user has been a member. As a user navigates the web application they will be able to favorite the content that they like. For example, if a user finds a particular pattern or stitch tutorial that they want to be able to find easily again they will be able to favorite it. When a user favorites a piece of content it will be added to their favorites page, which will allow a faster and easier way to find a pattern or tutorial that they have already started. The post table holds the information for when a user makes a comment on a piece of content. Each post will have an ID, title, author (username from the user table), content ID (from the content table), text, and published date/timestamp. There will be a comment form on each content page so users can express if they like or dislike the content. When a user makes a post this table will assign an ID to it as well as date/timestamp it. This will allow for traceability of the comment. For example, if a user makes a positive comment then we may reach out and ask to highlight that particular comment and the day it was made, or if a user makes a negative comment we can trace what day it was made and reach out after an update has been published for that content. The favorite table holds the information that will be saved when a user favorites a piece of content. Each favorite will have an ID, saved date/timestamp, and content ID (the ID for the content that is being favorited). This table will allow us to track which users favorite what content and when. This information will assist in statistics on what content is most popular and what needs to be updated. The date/timestamp will also give an insight into what time of year or season a certain post is popular. For example, in the fall/winter hats and scarfs might be more popular while in the spring/summer something small like a bracelet or headband might be more popular. The content table allows us to track when content is published to the web application and allows users to be able to favorite the content that they like. Each piece of content that is added will have an ID, title, category, and published date/timestamp. This allows us to track how well a particular piece of content is being received as well as when it might need an update. The published date/timestamp will assist in the tracking of the content, allowing us to know when an update might be needed to boost traffic back to that particular content again. For example, if a pattern was uploaded three years ago it might need an update to gain users interest again. If they had favorited that pattern before and saw that there was a new addition to the pattern then they will be more inclined to revisit that pattern again. The category table allows each piece of content to be classified in a particular way. When a piece of content is uploaded it will need a category assigned to it to allow a user to search for it. If a stitch tutorial is uploaded then it will be assigned the tutorials title. If a pattern is uploaded then it will be assigned the patterns title. This allows for the categorization of different content types. There is a simple form for the sign up and log in pages that connect to the User table in the database. The sign up page will connect throughevery aspect of the user table which is userID (this will be assigned automatically), username, first name, last name, email, create datetime, favorites, and password. The log in page will connect to the User table as well but will only require the username and password elements from the database. In keeping the interface simple, there is essentially one structure that is used for each content type page since the same database tables are used on all of them. The REST endpoints are /tutorials, /patterns, and /tips&tricks. From these rest points a user can pick which content specific page they want to go to, for example a specific tutorial, pattern, or tip. The specific content pages are connected to the database through the category table which holds a category ID to the content, the content table which holds the details for the content, the favorite table which allows users to favorite content, and the post table which allows users to comment on the content through a comment form.
